---
title: 'Toronto Fire Services Database'
slug: TFS Database
categories: SQL
image: /images/portfolio/TFS-fire-truck.jpg
orderDate: 10-10-2023
finishedOn: 11-10-2023
status: Completed
client: None
location: Toronto, Canada
techStack: SQL
---
<p>In this project, I developed a sophisticated spatial database to address the strategic challenges faced by Toronto Fire Services, especially highlighted by the rise in fire incidents during the COVID-19 pandemic. This increase brought forth the necessity for a robust analysis of fire incident locations, response times, and the distribution of firefighting resources across Toronto's dense and complex urban landscape.</p>

<p>Utilizing data from the Toronto Open Data Portal, I constructed a database incorporating various spatial data types and implemented advanced SQL queries to derive meaningful insights into the dynamics of fire incidents and resource allocation. The key components of the database included detailed information on fire incidents, locations of fire stations, and designated run areas for emergency responses, all of which were meticulously linked through relational and spatial relationships.</p>

<p>
The primary focus of the analysis was to understand the spatial distribution of fire incidents relative to fire stations and to evaluate the efficacy of current fire service deployments. Through a series of spatial SQL queries, I was able to identify hotspots for fire incidents, analyze adjacency and proximity of runways to high-incident areas, and assess the average response times across different regions. This enabled a deeper understanding of potential gaps in service coverage and areas requiring enhanced fire safety measures.
</p>


<p>
Furthermore, I explored the factors contributing to fire incidents in high-risk areas, providing a data-driven foundation for improving fire prevention strategies. By correlating incident data with the location and availability of fire stations, the project also suggested optimal locations for new fire stations to ensure quicker response times and better coverage across all areas.
</p>


<p>
This database not only serves as a vital tool for strategic planning and operational improvements for Toronto Fire Services but also sets a precedent for utilizing spatial analysis in enhancing public safety and emergency response in urban settings.
</p>